门徒

Trusted followers of mysterious ancient spirits known as the 'Purples', 
the Disciples roam the world running errands for their masters, 
learning mighty spells and receiving rare items as rewards for their 
work. There are three main flavors of Purple Disciples - disciples of 
Karrot, disciples of Yeqrezh, and disciples of a group of Purples known 
as the Troika. Each of the Purples expects different things of their 
Disciples, and each helps them achieve their ends in very different 
ways.

卡罗特
Karrot is a proud and ambitious Purple, convinced that it is his 
destiny to one day rule the universe; but rather than getting 
personally involved, he has assigned to his Disciples the task of 
eliminating any potential rivals (like the Serpent of Chaos). Being so 
sure of his greatness, Karrot sees little reason to vary his habits and 
is the only one of the Purples to predictably teach all of his 
Disciples the same spells. Karrot occasionally assigns side-quests to 
his Disciples, with the dual aim of testing their mettle and removing 
lesser threats to his supremacy. These side-quests only appear on 
fairly challenging levels; they can be avoided by sticking to safer 
areas, but this will not make Karrot happy...

Karrot considers many artifacts to be his rightful personal property, 
and will claim them immediately if you should find them. He will, 
however, give you another artifact as a reward for your discovery. 
These replacement artifacts tend to start out as fairly weak, but 
eventually become very strong as you gain Karrot's respect by leveling 
up and by successfully completing side-quests. If you're really lucky 
and do a particularly good job, you might even receive the ultimate 
gift - Urog, Karrot's legendary blade of shadows!

Disciples of Karrot tend to play as fighter-mages, relying on melee, 
spells and devices alike. They are unique among Disciples in not having 
a mana pool; casting a spell takes a toll on their hit points instead. 
They are also the only Disciples to have a charming spell - but the 
greatest of Karrot's followers are rumoured to eventually learn even 
rarer abilities...
Karrot's disciples depend on Intelligence to make their spells work.

  Stats                   Skills
  Strength      -1        Disarming   一般       
  Intelligence  +1        Device      优秀       
  Wisdom        -1        Save        良好       
  Dexterity     +0        Stealth     一般       
  Constitution  -1        Searching   一般       
  Charisma      +1        Perception  贫弱       
  Life Rating   95%       Melee       良好       
  Base HP       14        Archery     良好       
  Experience   125%
  
耶克雷什
Yeqrezh is the friendliest of the Purples, supportive of his Disciples 
and willing to let them find their own way. Disciples of Yeqrezh will 
learn 20 spells over the course of the game - one every two character 
levels, apart from levels 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50; seventeen of these 
spells are offered by Yeqrezh, while the other three (at levels 16, 32 
and 48) are chosen by you. Every ten levels, Yeqrezh offers direct help 
to his Disciples; depending on your choice, he can give you rare items 
or a permanent mental or physical ability, or share some of his life 
experience with you. Some of these abilities can be improved 
repeatedly, allowing you to accumulate exceptional mastery.

Disciples of Yeqrezh gain many practical tools as well as solid 
offensive options, and a useful item as a gift from their patron every 
odd-numbered character level. They are the most mage-like of all 
Disciples, and lack of hit points is their only true weakness. 
Nevertheless, they are extremely versatile, and can also win through 
melee, archery or even sneaking about silently collecting loot.

Yeqrezh is the recommended patron for new (or highly cautious) players, 
as he is the only Purple not to actively incentivize a demanding, 
push-the-envelope approach. Yeqrezh's disciples, like Karrot's, rely on 
Intelligence to power their spells.

  Stats                   Skills
  Strength      +0        Disarming   一般       
  Intelligence  +1        Device      一般       
  Wisdom        +1        Save        一般       
  Dexterity     +0        Stealth     一般       
  Constitution  -3        Searching   贫弱       
  Charisma      +0        Perception  贫弱       
  Life Rating   90%       Melee       良好       
  Base HP       12        Archery     优秀       
  Experience   115%
  
特罗伊卡
The Troika is a group of three closely related Purples working together 
- Guntujant, Uxip and Sohoglyth. Guntujant is a capricious Purple who 
follows the careers of his servants very closely, and rewards and 
punishes them seemingly at random; the powers gained by his followers 
are unpredictable, but generally quite strong. Uxip delights in combat, 
and grants Troika disciples their prodigious endurance and skill with 
two-handed weapons; however, a number of common items are an 
abomination unto Uxip, and cannot be used by followers of the Troika. 
Sohoglyth is a mysterious spirit, but a profoundly powerful one. She 
occasionally sets bonus quests for Troika disciples; if enough of the 
quests are completed with no failures, she will reward the questor with 
the power of telepathy, remote object quality sensing, or even walking 
through walls.

Troika Disciples are in general very strong, especially in combat but 
also sorcery, yet the limitations placed upon them by Uxip and 
Guntujant also make them in some ways vulnerable. In particular, they 
frequently suffer random punishments, risk being punished if they 
teleport from a fight while not at low health, cannot wear a shield or 
cure poison with mushrooms, and must earn the right to use a rod of 
Detection. The spells of Troika disciples are unique in that they are 
not learned at any particular character level; instead, Guntujant and 
Uxip will teach them as a reward for killing dangerous enemies, 
especially uniques. Strength determines the spellcasting ability of a 
Troika disciple.

  Stats                   Skills
  Strength      +1        Disarming   良好       
  Intelligence  +0        Device      糟糕       
  Wisdom        -1        Save        糟糕       
  Dexterity     +1        Stealth     一般       
  Constitution  +2        Searching   贫弱       
  Charisma      +0        Perception  贫弱       
  Life Rating  108%       Melee       优秀       
  Base HP       23        Archery     良好       
  Experience   150%
  
TIP: The special random quests for Karrot and Troika disciples can only 
appear 如果你所在的层数足够深，使得该任务具有挑战性。按下 CTRL+Freveals 
your patron's opinion of your current depth. The Purples also like you 
to visit many different dungeons; do not expect a large number of 
assignments in a single dungeon, unless 你在没有荒野的模式下游玩。

表 1 - 门徒属性加成表

                  STR  INT  WIS  DEX  CON  CHR  Life  BHP  Exp
卡罗特          -1   +1   -1   +0   -1   +1   95%  +14  125%
耶克雷什       +0   +1   +1   +0   -3   +0   90%  +12  115%
特罗伊卡       +1   +0   -1   +1   +2   +0  108%  +23  150%


表 2 - 门徒技能加成表 I

                  解除陷阱  使用装置  豁免        潜行       
卡罗特         一般        优秀        良好        一般       
耶克雷什      一般        一般        一般        一般       
特罗伊卡      良好        糟糕        糟糕        一般       


表 3 - 门徒技能加成表 II

                  搜索        察觉        近战        箭术       
卡罗特         一般        贫弱        良好        良好       
耶克雷什      贫弱        贫弱        良好        优秀       
特罗伊卡      贫弱        贫弱        优秀        良好       


表 4 - 耶克瑞什天赋

Disciples of Yeqrezh can choose five special gifts, one every ten 
levels. These gifts can take the form of new abilities, physical 
powers, or rare items; some can be chosen repeatedly, while others can 
only be picked once. Once you have selected a gift, you can never go 
back on your decision, so you might want to study this list to decide 
which gifts to choose for your character.

  紫色肌肉
  提供 +2 力量（STR）和 +2 敏捷（DEX）。

  紫色活力
  所有治疗效果恢复的生命值将比平时多 10%。

  紫色速度
  提供 +1 速度。

  紫色致命
  提供 +8 的近战伤害加成（不适用于天生攻击）。

  紫色潜行
  提供 +4 潜行。

  紫色防护
  提供 +15 护甲（AC）。

  装置精通
  赋予相当于 +1 装置精通(Md) 的装置技能。

  急速射击
  提供相当于 +1 额外射击(Xs) 的射击速度加成。

  强力咒术
  使你的法术强度提高 +15%，但会降低你 3 点生命乘数。

  紧张施法
  使你的法术强度提高 +15%，但会让你变得容易恐惧。

  轻松施法
  降低 4 个百分点的法术失败率。

  敏捷施法
  施放法术只需消耗通常 93% 的时间。

  快速恢复
  提供 +100% 再生率。

  彩票
  你将从耶克列日那里收到三张*获取*卷轴。

  死亡笔记
  你将从耶克列日那里收到五张群体大屠杀卷轴。

  生命精华
  你将从耶克列日那里收到三瓶生命药水。

  耶克记忆
  立即提升 5 个角色等级。

  怪异思维
  保护你的心智免受幻觉和不可名状的恐怖的侵害。

  坚韧思维
  使你免疫法力吸取。

  实物教学
  允许你感知远处物品的品质，并自动鉴定你踩到的所有物品。

  王牌洗牌
  使你能够使用“洗牌”法术，并在抽到“审判”牌时自动获得自我感知效果。





自动生成于 FrogComposband 7.4。

